# Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) With JavaScript

## What is Object-Oriented Programming?

### OOP

-   Object-oriented programming is a programming paradigm based on the concept of models.
-   We use objects to model (describe) real-world abstract feautures.
-   Objects may contain data (properties) and code (methods). By using objects, we pack data and corresponding behavior into one block.
-   In OOP, objects are self-contained pieces/block of code.
-   Objects are building blocks of applications, and interact with one anohter.
-   Interactions happen through a public interface (API) : methods that the code outside of the object can access and use to communicate with the object.
-   OOP was developed with the goal of organizing code, to make it more flexible and easier to maintain.

### Classes and Instances (Traditional OOP)

-   class : Like a blueprint from which we can create new objects
-   instance : an instance is a real object that we can use in our code, which was created from a class, and a class itself is not an object.

### The 4 Fundamental OOP principles

“How do we model real-world data into classes?”

-   Abstraction : Ignoring or hiding details that don’t matter, allowing us to get an overview perspective of the thing we’re implementing, instead of messing with details that don’t really matter to our implementaion.
-   Encapsulation : Keeping properties and methods private inside the class, so they are not accessible from outside the class. Some methods can be exposed as a public interface (API)
    -   Prevents external code from accidentally manipulating internal properties/state
    -   Allows to change internal implementation without the risk of breaking external code
-   Inheritance : Making all properties and methods of a certain class available to a child class, forming a hierachical relationship between classes. This allows us to reuse common logic and to model real-world relationships.
-   Polymorphism : A child class can overwrite a method it inherited from a parent class [it’s more complex that than, but enough for our purposes.]

## OOP in JavaScript

### OOP in JavaScript : Prototypes

-   Objects are linked to a prototype object
-   Prototype inheritance : The prototype contains methods (behavior) that are accessible to all objects linked to that prototype.
    -   Prototype inheritance is actually different from the ‘inheritance’. So that was one calss inheriting from another class. But in this case, it’s basically an instance inheriting from a class.
-   Behavior is delegated to the linked prototype object.

### 3 Ways of implementing prototypal inheritance in JavaScript

“How do we actually create prototype? And how do we link objects to prototype? How can we create new objects, without having classes?”

-   Constructor functions
    -   Technique to create objects from a function
    -   This is how built-in objects like Arrays, Maps or Sets are actually implemented.
-   ES6 Classes
    -   Modern alternative to constructor function syntax
    -   “Syntactic sugar” : behind the scenes, ES6 classes work exactly like constructor fucntions
    -   ES6 classes do NOT behave like classes in “classical OOP”
-   Object.create()
    -   The easiest and most straightforward way of linking an object to a prototype object.

---

[<PREV](./cjs221020.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs221022.md)
