# Advanced DOM and Events

## Types of Events and Event Handlers

: An event is basically a signal that is generated by a certain DOM node and a signal means that something has happend, for example, a click somewhere of the mouse moving, or the user triggering the full screen mode and really anything of importance, that happens on our webpage, generates an event.

`addEventListener()` is that it allows us to add multiple event listeners to the same event.

```jsx
const h1 = document.querySelector("h1");

const alertH1 = function (e) {
	alert("addEventListener: Great! You are reading the heading");
	// h1.removeEventListener('mouseenter', alertH1);
};

h1.addEventListener("mouseenter", alertH1);

setTimeout(() => h1.removeEventListener("mouseenter", alertH1), 3000);

// oldschool way
// h1.onmouseenter = function (e) {
//   alert('addEventListener: Great! You are reading the heading')
// };
```

## Event Propagation: Bubbling and Capturing

1. Capturing phase : where the event then travels all the way down from the document route to the target element.
2. Target phase : where events can be handled right at the target.
3. Bubbling phase : that events bubble up from the target to the document route. And just like the capturing phase, the event passes through all its parent elements, and really just the parents, so not through any sibling elements.

: It is indeed very important because basically, it’s as if the event also happened in each of the parent elements. So again, as the event bubbles through a parent element, it’s as if the event had happened right in that very element.

What this means is that if we attach the same event listener, also for example, to the section element, then we would get the exact same alert window for the setion element as well. So we would have handled the exact same event twice, once at it’s target, and once at on of its parent element. And this behavior will allow us to implement really powerful patterns.

---

[<PREV](./cjs221010.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs221012.md)
