# Advanced DOM and Events

## Efficient Script Loading: defer and async

-   Regular :
    -   Head : parsing HTML ⇒ waiting and Fetch script & execute ⇒ finishing parsing HTML ⇒ DOMcontentloaded
    -   Body end : parsing HTML ⇒ Fetch script & execute ⇒ DOMcontentloaded
-   Async : the script is loaded at the same time as the HTML is parsed. So in an asynchronous way, so that’s already an advantage. However, the HTML parsing still stops for the script execution. So the script is actually downloaded asynchronously. But then it’s executed right away in a synchronous way. And so the HTML code has to wait for being parsed.
-   Defer : When deferring what happens is that the script is still loaded asynchronously. But the execution of the script is deferred until the end of the HTMP parsing. loading time is similar to the async attribute, but with the key difference that would defer the HTML parsing is never interrupted, because the script is only executed at the end.

-   Regular - end of body : Scripts are fetched and executed after the HTML is completely parsed.
-   Async - head
    -   Scripts are fetched asynchronously and executed immediately.
    -   Usually the DOMContentLoaded event waits for all script to execute, except for async scripts. So, DOMContentLoaded does not wait for an async script.
    -   Scripts not guaranteed th execute in order
-   Defer - head
    -   Scripts are fetched asynchronously and executed after the HTML is completely parsed.
    -   DOMContentLoaded event files after defer script is executed.
    -   Scripts are executed in order

---

[<PREV](./cjs221019.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs221020.md)
