# How JavaScript Works Behind the Scenes

## The this keyword

: The this keyword, is an extremely important concept to understand in JavaScript.

-   `this` keyword, variable : Special variable that is created for every execution context (every function). Takes the value of (points to) the “owner” of the function in which the `this` keyword is used.
-   `this` keyword is NOT static. It depends on how the function is called, and its value is only assigned when the fuction is actually called.

### 4 different ways in which functions can be called

-   Method : `this` = Object that is calling the method.
-   Simple function call : `this` = undefined. (only valid for strict mode. Otherwise : window)
-   Arrow functions : `this` = `this` of surrounding fuctions (lexical `this` : Arrow functions do not get their own `this` keyword. Instead, if you use ‘the `this` varialbe’ in an arrow function, it will simply be the `this` keyword of the surrounding fucntion.)
-   Event listener : `this` = DOM element that the handler is attached to.

> `this` does NOT point to the function itself, and also NOT the its variable environment!

## Regular Functions vs. Arrow Functions

: That’s even true if you’re not even using the `this` keyword in a particular method. Because if you have this rule of never using an arrow function as a method, then you never have to think about which type of function you should use.

-   argument keyword : Just like the `this` keyword, the arguments keyword is only available in regular functions. argument keyword can be useful when we need a function to accept more parameters than we actually specified.

---

[<PREV](./cjs220918.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs220920.md)
