# A Closer Look at Functions

## Closures

: Is that closure is not a feature that we explicitly use. So we don’t create closures manually, like we create a new array of a new function. So a closure simply happens automatically in certain situations, we just need to recognize thosw situations.

A closure makes a function remember all the variables that existed at the function’s birthplace essentially.

Any function always has access to the variable environment of the execution context in which the function was created.

So let’s say all that again, to make this really clear. So a function always has access to the variable environment of the executions context in which it was created, even after a debt execution context is gone.

The closure is then basically this variable environment (VE) attached to the function, exactly as it was at the time and place that the function was created.

And the closure has priority over the scope chain.

-   A closure is the closed-over varable environment of the execution context in which a function was created, even after that execution context is gone.
-   A closure gives a function access to all the variables of its parent function, even after that parent function has returned. The function keeps a reference to its outer scope, which preserves the scope chain throughout time.
-   A closure makes sure that a function doesn’t loose connection to variables that existed at the function’s birth place.
-   A closure is like a backpack that a function carries around wherever it goes. This backpack has all the variables that were present in the environment where the function was created.

> We do NOT have to manually create closure, this is JavaScript feature that happens automatically. We can’t even access closed-over variables explicitly. A closure is NOT a tangible JavaScript object.

## More Closures Examples

```jsx
// Exapmle 1
let f;

const g = function () {
	const a = 23;
	f = function () {
		console.log(a * 2);
	};
};

const h = function () {
	const b = 777;
	f = function () {
		console.log(b * 2);
	};
};

g();
f();
console.dir(f);

//  re-assigninge f function
h();
f();
console.dir(f);

// Exapmle 2
const boardPassengers = function (n, wait) {
	const perGroup = n / 3;

	setTimeout(function () {
		console.log(`We are now boarding all ${n} passengers.`);
		console.log(`There are 3 groups, each with ${perGroup} passengers.`);
	}, wait * 1000);
	console.log(`Will start boarding in ${wait} seconds.`);
};

const perGroup = 1000;
boardPassengers(180, 3);
```

---

[<PREV](./cjs220925.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs220926.md)
