# How JavaScript Works Behind the Scenes

## An High-Level Overview of JavaScript

: JavaScript is a high-level, object-oriented, multi-paradigm, interpreted or just-in-time compiled , dynamic, sigle-threaded, garbage-collected programming launguage with first-class functions and a non-blocking event loop concurrency model.

-   High-level : High-level languages such as JavaScript and Python, where we do not have to manage resources at all because these languages have so-called abstractions that take all of that work away from us.
-   Multi-paradigm :
    -   Paradigm : An approach and mindset of structuring code, which will direct your coding style and technique.
    -   Procedural programming
    -   Object-oriented programming (OOP)
    -   Functional programming (FP)
        : JavaScript does all of it. So it’s really flexible and versatile.
-   First-class functions : In a language with first-class functions, functions are simply treated as variables. We can pass them into other functions, and return them from functions.
-   Dynamic : Dynamically-typed language. In JavaScript, we don’t assign data types to variables. Instead, they only became known when the JavaScript engine executes our code. Also the type of variables can easily be changed as we reassign variables.
-   Non-blocking event loop :
    -   Concurrency model : how the JavaScript engine handles multiple tasks happening at the same time.
    -   Why do we need that? ⇒ JavaScript runs in one single thread. so it can only do one thing at a time.
    -   So what about to a long-running tast? ⇒ Sounds like it would block the single thread. However, we want non-blocking behavior.
    -   How do we achieve that? ⇒ By using an event loop takes long running tasks, executes them in the “background”, and puts them back in the main thread once they are finished.

## The JavaScript Engine and Runtime

What is a JavaScript Engine?

-   JS engine : Program that executes JavaScript code. (e.g. Google’s V-Eight)
    -   Call Stack : The call stack is where our code is actually executed using something called execution context.
    -   Heap : The heap is ans unstructured memory pool which stores all the objects that our application needs.

But the question is how the code is complied to machine code so that it actually can be executed afterwards.

Compilation vs. Interpretation

-   Compilation : Entire code is converted into machine code at once, and written to a binary file that can be executed by a computer.
-   Interpretation : Interpreter runs through the source code and executes it line by line.

Modern JavaScript engine now use a mix between compilation and interpretaion which is called just-in-time comilation.

-   Just-in-time (JIT) compilation : Enter code is converted into machine code at once, then executed immediately.
    > [Source code] ⇒ step.1 compilation ⇒ [Machine code] ⇒ step. 2 execution ⇒ [Program running]

Modern Just-in-time compilation of JavaScript

-   Parsing : The first step is to parse the code which essentially means to read the code. During the parsing process, the code is parsed into a data structure called the abstract syntax tree or AST. This works by first splitting up each line of code into pieces that are meaningful to the language like the const or function keywords, and then saving all these pieces into the tree in a structured way. This step also checks if there are any syntax errors and the resulting tree will later be used to generate the machine code.
-   Compilation : The next step is compilation which takes the generated AST and compiles it into machine code.
-   Execution : This machine code then gets executed right away because remember modern JavaScript engine use justi-in-time compilation. And remember execution happens in the JavaScripts engines call stack.
-   Optimization : Modern JavaScript engines actually have some pretty clever optimization strategies. What they do is to create a very unoptimized version of machine code in the beginning just so that it can start executing as fast as possible. Then in the background, this code is being optimized and recompiled during the already running program execution. And this can be done most of the times and after each optimizaion the unoptimized code is simply swept for the new more optimized code without ever stopping execution of course.

: All this parsing, compilation and optimization happens in some special threads inside the engine that we cannot access from our code. So completely separate from the main thread that is basically running into call stack executing our own code.

JavaScript Runtime : Runtime in the browser

: Container including all the things that we need to use JavaScript

-   JavaScript engine : Without an engine there is no runtime and there is no JavaScript at all.
-   Web APIs : However the engine alone is not enough. In order to word properly, we also need access to the web APIs. So essentially web APIs are functionalities provided to the engine, but which are actually not part of the JavaScript language itself. JavaScript simply gets access to these APIs are also part of the runtime, because again a runtime is just like a box that contains all the JavaScript related stuff that we need.
-   Callback queue : This is a data structure that contains all the callback functions that are ready to be executed. (e.g. callback function from DOM event listener)
-   Event loop : The event loop takes callback functions from the callback queue and puts them in the call stack so that they can be executed.

Runtime in Node.js

-   JavaScript engine
-   C++ bindings & thread pool
-   Callback queue

---

[<PREV](./cjs220915.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs220916.md)
