# JavaScript Fundamentals - Part 2

## Introduction to Arrays

: Arrays are such a data structure. So an Array is like a big container into which we can throw variables and then later referece them. And that’s important. Because programming is most of the time, all about data. So we get data from somewhere we store and process data and then we give some data back. And that data, it has to go somewhere. So it has to be stored in some place. And for that, we use data structure, just like Arrays.

```jsx
const friends = ['Michael', 'Steven', 'Peter'];

const year = new Array(1991, 1984, 2008, 2020);

const calcAge2 = function (birthYear) {
    return 2022 - birthYear;
}

const years = [1990, 1967, 2002, 2010, 2018];
console.log(calcAge2(years[0]);)

const age1 = calcAge2(years[0]);
const age2 = calcAge2(years[1]);
const age3 = calcAge2(years[years.length - 1]);
console.log(age1, age2, age3);

const age = [calcAge2(years[0]), calcAge2(years[1]), calcAge2(years[years.length - 1])];
console.log(age)
```

## Basic Array Operations (Methods)

: JavaScript has some built in functions that we can basically apply directly on arrays. And these are called methods and we can think of methods as array operator.

-   push() : The push method adds elements to the end of an array.
-   unshift() : The unshift method adds elements to the begginning of an array.
-   pop() : The pop method which is basically the opposite of the push method. So the pop method will remove the last element of the array.
-   shift(): The shift method removes elements to the begginning of an array.
-   indexOf() : The indexOf method tell us in which position a certain element is in the array.
-   includes() : The includes method, instead of returning the index of the element will simply return true if the element is in the array and false if it’s not.

```jsx
const friends = ["Michael", "Steven", "Peter"];
// friends.push('Jay');
const newLength = friends.push("Jay");

friends.unshift("John");

friends.pop();
const popped = friends.pop();
console.log(popped);

console.log(friends.indexOf("Steven"));
console.log(friends.indexOf("Bob"));

console.log(friends.includes("Steven"));
console.log(friends.includes("Bob"));
```

## Introduction to Objects

: In objects, we actually define key value pairs.

-   key : the variable name
-   value : can be of any type that we want.

Objects are probably the most fundamental concept in the whole of JavaScript language. So there are many ways of creating objects.

-   Object literal Syntax : literally writing down the entire object content.

---

[<PREV](./cjs220908.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs220910.md)
