# JavaScript Fundamentals - Part 1

## Statements and Expressions

-   Statement : Is like a bigger piece of code that is executed and which does not produce a value on itself.
-   Expression : A piece of code that produces a value. Even though it’s just a simple value.

## The Conditional (ternary) operator

: Conditional operator allows us to write something similar to ans if/else statement but all in one line.

`condition ? (when condition is true) : (when condition is false)`;

```jsx
const age = 23;
age >= 18
	? console.log("I like to drink wine")
	: console.log("I like to drink water");

let drink2;
if (age >= 18) {
	drink2 = "wine";
} else {
	drink2 = "water";
}

console.log(`I like to drink ${age >= 18 ? "Wine" : "Water"}`);
```

## Javascript Releases : ES5, ES6+ and ESNEXT

In 2009, ES5 (ECMAScript 5) is released with lots of great new features.

In 2015 ES%/ES2015 (ECMAScript 2015) was released: the biggest update to the language ever! and ECMAScript changes to an annual release cycle in order to ship less feature per update.

The JavaScript engine that’s in our browser today is able to understand old code written 25 years ago, without having to rely on version numbers or anything like that. It just works. And it works this way because of the fundamental principle that’s baked into the JavaScript language and its development, which is to not break the web.

### How to use modern JavaScript today

-   During development : Simply use the latest Google Chrome!
-   During production : Use Babel to transpile and polyfill your code (converting back to ES5 to ensure browser compatibility for all users).

---

[<PREV](./cjs220905.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs220906.md)
