# How JavaScript Works Behind the Scenes

## Execution Contexts and The Call Stack

What is an Execution context?

Execution context : Environment in which a piece of JavaScript is executed. Stores all the necessary information for some code to be executed.

: In any JavaScript project, no matter how large it is, there is only ever one global execution context. (EC) : Default context created for code that is not inside any function (top-level)

-   Creation of global execution context (for top-level code) : not inside a function
-   Execution of top-level code (inside global EC) : there is not a lot say about the execution itself. It’s just the computer CPU processing the machine code that received.
-   Executions of functions and waiting for callbacks : For each and every function call, a new execution context is created. All these execution contexts together, make up the call stack.
-   When all functions are done executing, the engine will basically keep waiting for callback functions to arrive so that it can execute these.

### Execution context in detail

What’s inside execution context?

-   Variable Environment : let, const and var declarations. Functions. arguments object.
-   Scope chain : consists of references to variables that are located outside of the current function. Scope chain stored in each execution context.
-   this keyword

: all of these generated in a so-called creation phase. Which happens right before executions.

Execution context belonging to arrow functions, do not get their own arguments keyword, nor do they get the this keyword. So basically arrow functions don’t have the arguments object and the this keyword. Instead, they can use the arguments object, and the this keyword from their closest regular function parent.

The call stack

: It’s basically a place where execution contexts get stacked on top of each other, in order to keep track of where we are in the programs execution. So the execution context that is on top of the stack, is the one that is currently running. And when it’s finished running, it will removed from the stack, and execution will go back to the previous execution context.

## Scope and The Scope chain

### Scoping and scope in JavaScript : concepts

-   Scoping : How our program’s variables are organized and accessed. “Where do variables live?” or “Where can we access a certain variable, and where not?”.
-   Lexical scoping : Scoping is controlled by placement of functions and blocks in the code.
-   Scope : Space or environment in which a certain variable is declared (variable environment in case of functions). There is global scope, function scope, and block scope.
-   Scope of a variable : Region of our code where a certain variable can be accessed.

### The 3 types of scope

-   Global scope : Once more for top level code. Outside of any function or block, Variables declared in global scope are accessible everywhere.
-   Function scope : Variables are accessible only inside function, NOT outside. Also called local scope.
-   Block scope (ES6) : Variables are accessible only inside block (block scoped). However, this only applies to let and const variables! Functions are also block scoped (only in strict mode).

### The Scope chain

: Every scope always has access to all the variables from all its outer scopes. So from all its parent scope.And by the way, all this also applies to functions arguments. In other words, if one scope needs to use a certain variable, but cannot find it in the current scope, it will look up in the scope chain and see if it can find a variable in one of the parent scopes. If it can, it will then use that variable. And if it can’t then there will be an error. But this does not work the other way around. A certain scope will never, ever have access to th variables of an inner scope. So again, for a variable declared with var, block scopes don’t apply at all. They are functions scoped, not block scoped. Let and const on the other hand are in fact block scoped.

### Scope chain vs. call stack

-   Call stack : Order in which functions were called.
-   Scope chain : Order in which functions are written in the code. ⇒ Has nothing to do with order in which functions were called.

---

[<PREV](./cjs220916.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs220917.md)
