# How JavaScript Works Behind the Scenes

## Variable Environment: Hoisting and The TDZ

### Hoisting in JavaScript

-   Hoisting : Makes some types of variables accessible/usable in the code before they are actually declared. “Variables lifted to the top of their scope.”
    ⇒ Behind the scenes : The code is basically scanned for variable declarations before it is executed.
    = Before, execution, code is scanned for variable declarations, and for each variable, a new property is created in the variable environment object.

: Let and const variables are not hoisted but their value is basically set to an initialized. So there is no value to work with at all. Instead, we say that these variables are placed in a so-called Temporal Dead Zone or TDZ which makes it so that we can’t access the variables between the beginning of the scope and to place where the variables are declared. So as a consequence, if we attempt to use a let or const variable before it’s declared, we get an error.

: What is actually the need for JavaScript to have a Temporal Dead Zone? the main reason that the TDZ was introduced in ES6 is that the behavior makes it way easier to avoid and catch error. Because using a variable that is set to undefined before it’s actually declared can cause serious bugs which might be hard to find.

: If hoisting creates so many problems, why does it exist in the first place? ⇒ So the creator of JavaScript basically implemented hoisting so that we can use function declarations before we use them. Because this is essential for some programming techniques, such as mutual recursion. Now, the fact that it alse works for var declarations is because that was the only way hoisting could be implemented at the time. So the hoisting of var variables is basically just a byproduct of hoisting functions. And it probably seemed like a good idea to simply set variables to undefined, which in hindsight is not really that great.

---

[<PREV](./cjs220917.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs220918.md)
