# JavaScript Fundamentals - Part 2

## Activating Strict Mode

: Strict mode is a special mode that we can activate in JavaScript. which makes it easier for us to write a secure JavaScript code.

```jsx
"use strict";
// this statement here basically has to be the very first statement in the script.
```

Strict mode makes it easier for us developers to avoid accidenttal errors. It helps us introduce the bugs into our code.

-   Strict mode forbids us to do certain things
-   Strict mode will actually create visible errors for us in certain situations in which without strict modes JavaScript will simply fail silently without letting us know that we did a mistake.

## Functions

: The fundamental building block of real world JavaScript applications are functions.

What actually are functions? In the most simple form a function is simply piece of code that we can reuse over and over again in our code. and a function can hold one of more complete lines of code.

We also pass data into a function cans and additionally, a function can also return data as well which means to give us data back that we cans then use for something else in the program.

Not all functions need to return something and not all functions need to accept parameters.

Functions allow us to write more maintainable code because with functions we can create reusable chunks of code instead of having to manually write the same code over and over again.

We say that we should not repeat ourselves and so functions are perfect for implementing dry code because they are reusable code blocks that together, make up all applications and of course we will use functions throughout the rest of the course because they are a fundamental building block of JavaScript programs.

## Functions Declations vs Expressions

: So what’s the big difference between function declarations and function expressions? The main practical difference is that we cans actually call function declarations before they are defined in the code.

-   anonymous function

    ```jsx
    const calcAge2 = function (birthYear) {
    	return 2022 - birthYear;
    };

    const age2 = calcAge2(1991);
    console.log(age2);
    ```

: Is that in fact in JavaScript, functions are actually just values. So just as a number or a string or a boolean value. So a function is not a type. And so if it’s a value, we can store it in a variable.

---

[<PREV](./cjs220906.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs220907.md)
