# Asynchronous JavaScript: Promises, Async/Await, and AJAX

## Running Promises in Parallel

`Promise.all()` : this function takes in an array of promises, and it will return a new promise, which will then run all the promises in the array at the same time. (kind of a helper function on this promise constructor. - static method, combinator function)

So whenever you have a situation in which you need to do multiple asynchronous operations at the same time, and operations that don’t depend on one another, then you should always run them in parallel.

```jsx
const getJson = function (url, errorMsg = "Something went wrong") {
	return fetch(url).then((response) => {
		if (!response.ok) {
			throw new Error(`${errorMsg} (${response.status})`);
		}
		return response.json();
	});
};

const get3Countries = async function (c1, c2, c3) {
	try {
		// const [data1] = await getJson(`https://restcountries.com/v3.1/name/${c1}`);
		// const [data2] = await getJson(`https://restcountries.com/v3.1/name/${c2}`);
		// const [data3] = await getJson(`https://restcountries.com/v3.1/name/${c3}`);

		const data = await Promise.all([
			getJson(`https://restcountries.com/v3.1/name/${c1}`),
			getJson(`https://restcountries.com/v3.1/name/${c2}`),
			getJson(`https://restcountries.com/v3.1/name/${c3}`),
		]);
		// console.log([data1.capital, data2.capital, data3.capital]);
		// console.log(data);
		console.log(data.map((d) => d[0].capital));
	} catch (err) {
		console.error(err);
	}
};

get3Countries("portugal", "canada", "singapore");
```

## Other Promise Combinators: race, allSettled and any

-   `Promise.race()` : just like all other combinators, receives an array of promises and it also returns a promise. this promise returned by Poromise.race() is settled as soon as one of the input promises settles. And remember that settled simply means that a value is available, but it doesn’t matter if the promise got rejected or fulfilled. And so in Promise.race(), basically the first settled promise wins the race. And so we say that Promise.race() short circuits whenever one of the promises gets settled. And so again, that means no matter if fulfilled or rejected.
-   `Promise.allSettled()` : It is from ES2020 and it is actually a very simple one. So it takes in an array of promises again, and it will simply return an array of all the settled promises. And so again, no matter if the promises got rejected or not. So it’s similar to Promise.all in regard that it also returns an array of all the results, but the difference is that Promise.all() will short circuit as soon as one promise rejects, but Promise.allSettled, simply never short circuits.
-   `Promise.any()` : this is even more modern. It is from ES2021. So as always
    Promise.any takes in an array of multiple promises and this one will then return the first fulfilled promise and it will simply ignore rejected promises. So basically Promise.any() is very similar to Promise.race() with the difference that rejected promises are ignored. And so therefore the results of Promise.any() is always gonna be a fulfilled promise, unless of course all of them reject.

---

[<PREV](./cjs221125.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs221127.md)
