# Asynchronous JavaScript: Promises, Async/Await, and AJAX

## Asynchronous Behind the Scenes: The Event Loop

: JavaScript has only one thread of execution. And so it can only do one thing at a time. There is absolutely no multitasking happening in JavaScript itself.

How can asynchronous code be executed in a non-blocking way, if there is only one thread of execution in the engine?

⇒ The event loop has the extremely important task of doing coordination between the call stack and to callbacks in the callback queue. So, the event loop is basically who decides exactly when each callback is executed. We can also say that the event loop does the orchestration of this entire JavaScript runtime.

JavaScript language itself has actually no sense of time. That’s because everything that is asynchronous does not happen in the engine. It’s the runtime who manages all the asynchronous behavior. And it’s the event loop who decides which code will be executed next. But the engine itself simply executes whatever code it has given.

Callbacks of promises have a special queue for themselves, which is the so called microtasks queue. What is special about the microtasks queue is that it basically has priority over the callback queue. So, at the end of an event loop tick, so after a callback has been taken from the callback queue, the event loop will check if there are any callbacks in the microtasks queue. And if there are, it will run all of them before it will run any more callbacks from the regular callback queue.

---

[<PREV](./cjs221118.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs221119.md)
