# Advanced DOM and Events

## How the DOM Really Works

: Let’s start this section by learning how the DOM really works behind the scenes and more specifically how the DOM is organized internally.

The DOM is basically the interface between all JavaScript code and the browser, or more specifically HTML documents that are rendered in and by the browser.

-   Allows us to make JavaScript interact with the browser
-   We can write JavaScript to create, modify and delete HTML elements, set styles, classes and attributes and listen and repond to events
-   DOM tree is generated from an HTML document, which we can then interact with
-   DOM is a very complex API that contains lots of methods and properties to interact with the DOM tree

### How the DOM API is organized behind the scenes

: So first, every single node in the DOM tree is of the type, node. And such as everything else in JavaScript, each node is represented in JavaScript by and object. This object gets access to special node methods and properties, such as text content, child nodes, parent nodes, clone nodes and many others.

This node type has a couple of child types so to say. And these are the element type, the text type, the comment type and also the document type. So whenever there is text inside any element, we already know that it gets its own node.

The element type has internally an HTML element child type, And that element type itself has exactly one child type for each HTML element that exists in HTML.

What makes all of this work is something called inheritance. So what is inheritance? Well inheritance means that all the child types will also get access to the methods and properties of all their parent node types.

Document, which we use all the time in DOM manipulation is in fact just another type of node. So it contains important methods, such as querySelector, createElement and getElementbyId. And node how querySelector is available on both the document and element types. So keep this in mind, because it will be important later on.

The DOM API actually needs a way of allowing all the node types to listen to events. And remember we usually listen for events by calling the addEventListener method on an element of the document. So why does that actually work? Well its because there is a special node type called EventTarget which is a parent of both the node type and also the window node type. And so with this, thanks to inheritance, we can call addEventListener on every single type of node in the DOM API because all elements as well as document and window, and even text and comment will inherit this method and therefore we will be able to use addEventListener on all of them just as if it was their own method.

---

[<PREV](./cjs221007.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs221008.md)
