# A Closer Look at Functions

## Default Parameters

: Sometimes it’s useful to have functions where some prameters are set by default. This way we do not have to pass them in manually in case we don’t want to change the default. The default value is that they can contain any expression. But what’s even more useful is that we can actually use the values of the other parameters that were set before it.

```jsx
const bookings = [];

const createBooking = function (
	flightNum,
	numPassengers = 1,
	price = 199 * numPassengers
) {
	// ES5 way
	// numPassengers = numPassengers || 1;
	// price = price || 199;

	const booking = {
		flightNum,
		numPassengers,
		price,
	};
	console.log(booking);
	bookings.push(booking);
};

createBooking("LH123");
createBooking("LH123", 2, 800);
createBooking("LH123", 3);
```

## How Passing Arguments Works: Value vs. Reference

: How exactly it works to pass arguments into functions?

When we pass an object to a function, it is really just like copying an object. And so whatever we change in a copy will also happen in the original. Now we need to be careful with this behavior and always keep it in mind. That’s because the fact that objects behave this way when passed to functions can have unforeseeable consequences in large code bases. And that’s especially true when you’re working with multiple developers.

In programming, there are two terms that are used all the time when dealing with functions, which is passing by value, and passing by reference, and many experienced programmers that are new to JavaScript have some confusion between these terms and how it works in JavaScript. So JavaScript does not have passing by reference, only passing by value, even though it looks like it’s passing by reference. And it’s confusing, because as we just learned, for objects, we do in fact pass in a reference. So the memory address of the object. However, that reference to the fucntion, but we do not pass by reference, and this is an important distinction.

## First-Class and Higher-Order Functions

: JavaScript is a language that has first class functions which in technical terms means that functions are so-called first citizens.

-   First-Class Functions : JavaScript treat functions as first-class citizens. This means that functions are simply values. Functions are just another “type” of object.
    ⇒ So we can do with them, like storing them in variables or object properties. We can also pass functions as arguments to other functions. We can also return a function from another function. And also methods that we can call on functions.

Now the fact that JavaScript has first-class functions makes it possible for us to use and write higher order functions.

-   Higher-Order Functions : A function that receive another function as an argument, that return a new function, or both. This is only possible because of first-class functions. (e.g. addEventListener() )

---

[<PREV](./cjs220921.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs220923.md)
