# Working with Arrays

## Simple Array Methods

: Arrays are objects, and that they get access to special built in methods that we can essentially see as tools for arrays.

-   `.slice()`
-   `.splice()` : it mutates that array. We are usually interested in is to just delete one or more elements from an array using splice.
-   `.reverse()` : it mutates that array.
-   `.concat()` : concatenate two arrays.
-   `.join()` : return string with the separator

## The new at Method

: in ES2022, we can replace the traditional bracket notation with the more modern looking At method.

```jsx
const arr = [23, 11, 64];
console.log(arr[0]);
console.log(arr.at(0));

//  getting last array elemnt
console.log(arr[arr.length - 1]);
console.log(arr.slice(-1)[0]);
console.log(arr.at(-1));
console.log(arr.at(-2));
```

## Looping Arrays: forEach

: What the forEach method does is to loop over the array, and in each iteration it will execute this callback function. Also as the forEach method calls callback function in each iteration it will pass in the current element of the array as an argument, and we can specity.

The forEach method who calls callback function in each iteration. And as it calls this function it also passes in the current element of the array, bur actually that’s not all it passes in. In fact, for Each passes in the current element, the index and the entire array that we are looping. And so therefore we can specify them in our parameter list. And as always the names do not matter at all, but what does matter is the order. So the first parameter always needs to be the current element, the second parameter always the current index and the third one always the entire array that we are looping over. Because that’s the order in which the arguments, so the actual values, are passed into our callback function.

Now when should you use forEach and when should you use the for of loof. Well one fundamental difference between the two of them is that you cannot break out of a forEach loop. So the continue and break statements do not work in a forEach loop at all. So instead, forEach will always loop over the entire array and there is nothing that you can do about it. So if you really need to break out of a loop then you have to keep using the for of loop, but other than that it really comes down to your personal preference. Just like so many other things in JavaScript.

```jsx
const movements = [200, 450, -400, 3000, -650, -130, 70, 1300];

// for (const movement of movements) {
for (const [i, movement] of movements.entries()) {
	if (movement > 0) {
		console.log(`Movement ${i + 1}: You deposited ${movement}`);
	} else {
		console.log(`Movement ${i + 1}: You withdrew ${movement}`);
	}
}
console.log("-----forEach------");

movements.forEach(function (mov, i, arr) {
	if (mov > 0) {
		console.log(`Movement ${i + 1}: You deposited ${mov}`);
	} else {
		console.log(`Movement ${i + 1}: You withdrew ${mov}`);
	}
});
```

---

[<PREV](./cjs220926.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs220927.md)
