# JavaScript Fundamentals - Part 2

## **Dot vs. Bracket Notation**

-   Dot notation : jonas.lastName dot is actually operator
-   Bracket notation : jonas['lastName'] we can actually put any expression that we'd like, so we don't have to explicitly write the string here, but instead we can compute it from some operation. Because the operation is basically an expression.

```jsx
const nameKey = "Name";
console.log(jonas["first" + nameKey]);
console.log(jonas["last" + nameKey]);
```

So when we need to first compute the property name, like we did here with the first and last name, then of course we have to use the bracket notation.

In any other case, just use the dot notation, which looks a lot cleaner and it's also easier to use.

```jsx
const interestedIn = prompt(
	"What do you want to know about Jonas? Choose between firstName, lastName, age, job and friends"
);
console.log(jonas[interestedIn]);

if (jonas[interestedIn]) {
	console.log(jonas[interestedIn]);
} else {
	console.log("Wrong request");
}

jonas.location = "Portugal";
jonas["twitter"] = "@jonasschemdtmann";

console.log(jonas);
console.log(
	`${jonas.firstName} has ${jonas.friends.length}. and his best friend is called ${jonas.friends[0]}`
);
```

## Object methods

: Objects can hold different types of data. And they could even hold objects inside objects.

But we can take it even further. And for that, remember that functions are really just another type of value. And if a function is just a value then that means that we can create a key value pair in which the value is a function. And that then means that we cans in fact, add functions to objects.

`this.` keyword : equal to the object on which the method is called, or in other words, it is equal to the object calling the method.

```jsx
const jonas = {
	firstName: "Jonas",
	lastName: "Schmedtmann",
	birthYear: 1991,
	job: "teacher",
	friends: ["Michael", "Peter", "Steven"],
	hasDriverLicense: true,
	calcAge: function () {
		return 2022 - this.birthYear;
	},
};

console.log(jonas.calcAge());
```

## Itertaion: The for loop

: Loop is one of the control structure. The loop will keep running while condition is true.

The loop statement has three parts. The first part is the initial value of a counter. Then we use semicolon and go to the second part. And the second part, is a logical condition that is evaluated before each iteration of the loop. And in the Third part, we actually update the counter after each iteraion.

```jsx
for (let rep = 1; rep <= 10; rep++) {
	console.log(`Lifting weights repetition ${rep}`);
}
```

---

[<PREV](./cjs220909.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs220911.md)
