# How JavaScript Works Behind the Scenes

## Primitives vs. Objects (Primitive vs. Reference Types)

: We need to learn about the big difference between the way primitive types and objects are stored and memory.

-   Primitives : numbers, strings, Boolean’s … ect ⇒ primitive types
    -   primitives are stored in the call stack.
-   Objects : Object literal, Arrays, Functions … ect ⇒ reference types
    -   All of objects (reference types) will get stored right in the memory heap.

What actually happens inside the JavaScript engine and the computer’s memory?

: First, JavaScript will create a so-called unique identifier with the variable name. Then a piece of memory will be allocated with a certain address and finally the value would be stored in memory at the specified address. Now what’s extremely important to understand here is that the identifire actually points to the address and not to the value itself. The value at a certain memory address is immutable, or in other words, it cannot be changed.

Now, with reference values, things work a bit differently. Reference values does actually not point directly to newly created memory address in the heap. Instead, it will point to a new piece of memory that’s created in the stack. And this new piece of memory will then point to the object that’s in the heap by using the memory address as its value.

So it’s a misconception that all variables declared with const are immutable. In fact, that is only true for primitive values, but not for reference values.

### Topics for later

-   Prototypal Inheritance : Object Oriented Programming (OOP) with JavaScript
-   Event loop : Asynchronous JavaScript - Promises, Aysync/Await and AJAX
-   How the DOM Really Works : Advanced DOM and Events

```jsx
// Copying objects
const jessica2 = {
	firstName: "Jessica",
	lastName: "Williams",
	age: 27,
};

//  Only works oh the first level => shallow copy
const jessicaCopy = Object.assign({}, jessica2);
jessicaCopy.lastName = "Davis";

jessicaCopy.family.push("Mary");
jessicaCopy.family.push("John");

console.log(jessica2, jessicaCopy);
```

: Usually, we do something like this, which is like really complex using an external library, for example, like Lo-Dash, and this library has a ton of helpful tools and one of them is for deep cloning.

---

[<PREV](./cjs220919.md) || [NEXT>](./cjs220920.md)
